## TN-RAPDRP-Project
#### INDUSTRIAL TRAINING REPORT

### Abstract
The project describes the use of geospatial technology in R-APDRP (Restructured-Accelerated Power Development and Reform Program) project at Kumananchavadi village of Ponamallae Taluk and Thirumudivakkam village of Sriperumbudur Taluk by Tamil Nadu Electricity Board Ltd (TNEB) for improving the power scenario through electrical network mapping and consumer surveying. GIS is spearheading the distribution reforms network mapping, asset creation, work management, ensuring billing and collection efficiency and cordial and effective consumer relationships. In both the villages, all consumers (all tariff categories) were surveyed and mapped using geospatial technology. The objective of GIS mapping and indexing of the consumers was to identify the location of consumer installation on geographical map from the respective distribution transformer (DT). The connectivity was established from a substation (SS), feeder, DT. This aims to ensure attention on fuse of call, voltage fluctuation and default in payment of current consumption (CC) bill, in particular service connection, metre functioning through automatic meter reader (AMR), energy theft, HT/LT lines, overloading of distribution transformers etc. in an efficient manner. Out of total consumers, this was categorised and indexed section wise, distribution zone wise, tariff wise consumer incorporated and electrical asset network mapping was also indexed using geospatial technology. For locating and marking the substation equipment, it was segregated feeder-wise and distribution transformer wise i.e. Consumer Index Number (CIN) was assigned. Apart from this, the T & D (transmission and distribution) loses in electrical network are also likely to reduce gradually by accounting of energy in substations, feeders, distribution transformers and transmission lines at the end- consumer level. Geospatial technology is poised to surely improve the revenue of TNEB and consumer satisfaction.
